
This block allows a teacher to indicate which browser plug-ins 
students are likely to require in the course based on the content they 
are intending to include. The plug-ins they choose are stored against 
the instance of the block for the course the block has been added to.

Students will see a tick or a cross against each one of the plug-ins 
selected indicating whether or not their browser seems to support the 
plug-in.

There is no embedded help for users as to how to locate or install any 
missing plug-ins, its simply an indication as to whether they seem to 
have them currently installed.


Implementation details:
----------------------

This solution as implemented is to use the navigator.* methods 
supported by Mozilla, Firefox and early IE browsers to establish if 
support may be available. And to create an ActiveX object in later IE 
versions with some VBScript. Although the navigator.* method is not as 
reliable it gives a  easonable indication without the overhead of 
actually instantiating each individual object type.

Most comprehensive plug-in detection solutions achieve detection 
through attempting to instantiate an instance of the object in 
question by including an <object> tag in the output, then checking to 
see if that object exists or is able to be queried through its 
methods/properties. If not the detector assumes the plug-in is not 
available or is disabled.

The instantiation method is effective, but also places an increased 
processing and network burden on the browser, and potentially the 
back-end server, which may not be appropriate on a page which is 
heavily or frequently visited.

The block does not require any additional database fields or tables 
and should be supported by any backend Moodle version >= 1.5 (has been 
specifically tested in 1.7, 1.8 & 1.9). It has also been tested in 
Javascript enabled browsers IE7, FF2 and Safari3 (a warning is 
presented in the block to the user if Javascript not enabled).

Development of this block is discussed here:
  http://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=94932


Possible future changes to this block:
--------------------------------------

 o check for specific versions of plugins (lots of work)
 o inspect uploaded or linked content in a course and automatically 
populate the plug-in list based on extensions
 o a page with instructions or links to installers for each plug-in
 o integration with the Moodle check_browser_version() sub
 o check for XML support (ie NN7+, IE6+, FF1+ etc)


Other plug-detection approaches:
--------------------------------

Jamie Pratt describes using the instantiation method to detect the 
flash player in this thread:
  http://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=20943

Also mentioned is Hixie's workaround for the <embed> element missing 
in HTML4 problem:
  http://ln.hixie.ch/?start=1081798064&count=1

California State University - Web Browser Check Up
  http://ilearn.csumb.edu/BrowserTestFiles/index.php

moock fpi - flash detection
  http://moock.org/webdesign/flash/detection/moockfpi/

Detecting plugins in Internet Explorer
  http://www.builtfromsource.com/2007/06/26/